So far in our demos I've shown the basics
of going from an mp3 file to a speaker.
But now we wanna do something where we
go from an mp3 file to another node and
then from that node on to the speaker.
In this little image here,
it's a delay note it's like an effect
an audio effect of some kind but
we're gonna just start with something
even simpler which is just a gain node.
Gain is like volume you can think
of it as volume of a signal and
how powerful the signal is and
that will allow us to adjust the volume
of the mp3 file very easily with
just a single node in between.
So that's this third demo here and our
page and depending on the most interaction
[MUSIC]
We can change the volume.
So just open that one up.
So this demo here that we have is pretty
much the same as some of our other demos.
There's one thing that's different here
and I'm just gonna recode it here.
Just to give us a sense
of how it all works.
So, imagine we have very
similar to the first mp3 demo,
we create an audio tag, we set the source.
One other thing I've added here in
this case is a cross origin setting.
You don't really need to worry about this
if you're using local development but
if you're working on glitch,
you might need to set this, just so
that it works with the audio files.
And then we loop the audio,
make sure it's looping and play it and
feed that into our audio context,
our web audio, API.
But again, this isn't gonna play anything
because we haven't got any code that's
actually connecting it to the speaker.
So the first thing we're gonna do
is connect this to another node but
we don't wanna just connect it directly
to the speaker we want to first connect
to that gain node.
So before, we have to create a new
gain node it's gonna look like this.
So audio contacts has all of these
different functions called create
something.
So create media elements source,
create gain,
create buffer source,
create analyzer and those are all just
functions that allow you to create
these little building blocks.
And so
with this we're creating a gain node and
by the way if you're lost at
all with these functions inside
the repository I have links
to the API documentation.
The Web Audio,
API documentation is pretty complete.
You can see all of these functions within
the audio context and scroll down and
find them and find details about them.
So that's just something to keep in mind,
if you're doing this yourself and
you're trying to figure out what
the name of those functions are.
All right, so we've got our
media elements source node, and
we've got a gain node for
volume adjustment.
And now we're gonna connect
the source to the game.
So we're wiring up the source
into the game node.
And then we're gonna wire the gain
to the destination the speaker so
gain connect audio
context dot destination,
I've named it differently so
I call it gain node.
And I should just rename this as well,
there we go.
I've got a variable up here called gain
node, that's what it should be called.
And so that is gonna allow us to play
the audio through the gain node.
And then there's one other thing
that I'm doing in this demo,
if you scroll down to the draw function.
First we have to check if
the audio context exists,
which means we've already set up our
audio so it's running, it's playing.
And then I have something here
that determines the volume level
between the left of the screen and
the right of the screen and
this volume level is a value that
I'm going to get between 0 and 1.
So, I'm using this sort of
math equation here I guess,
you take the absolute distance from
the mouse of the mouse position,
to the center of the screen and
divide that by half of the width.
That's kind of what I'm doing there but.
Basically, what you end up with is a value
that's gonna go somewhere between 0 and 1.
So I can just set it to
0.5 just to show you.
And this next line here
is going to use that
value that goes between 0.5 and 0.1 and
I'm putting that into this function here.
So gain node has a property
on it called gain.
It's kind of annoying that you're
always gonna end up writing gain.
But the idea of the Web Audio API
is that all of these nodes,
they have parameters and so
let's say we go into the gain node,
and we scroll down.
You'll see it has a property called gain,
and it's defined as an audio param.
The audio param, is a building block
of anything that can be adjustable.
And so in this case, it's to do with
the volume, but sometimes it's to do with
some other feature like frequency or
something like that.
And we can go in there and
it has its own functions,
we can simply set the value like this.
So this is how you might
change the volume just by
doing gain node dot gain dot
value is equal to the volume.
But if you were to do that let's see.
If you were to do that in
an interactive way where it's
changing every single frame,
60 frames per second,
you end up with some popping and
clicking noises.
And it's hard to hear on this computer but
if you're listening to headphones and
you're playing your web audio application.
And you're doing this you're
gonna hear a little clicks and
pops and the reason is because
the waves that are being created by
this audio context suddenly
you're changing the amplitude.
And so one of the waves is a little
bit smaller than the other wave.
And they don't exactly line up.
And there's gonna be this disconnect.
And whenever there's one of those
disconnects, it's gonna create a pop or
a sort of clicking noise.
And so in order to avoid that,
we have to basically always
adjust values in a gradual way.
We can't just adjust the value with a hard
stop because it'll produce a click.
So what we're doing,
is we're using this function called
set target at time and
then passing in the new volume we want.
We pass in the current time
of the audio context and
then we pass in some small time constant
which can just for sake of example.
And for most cases I think
you can just put it at 0.01.
And what this is gonna do is it's going to
schedule a change, a gradual shift from
the current time to basically
the next microsecond or whatever.
So that it gradually shifts
from one value to the other
instead of just an immediate change.
And one thing to note is that we're
using audio context dot current time.
You'll see that quite a bit
in the audio contexts and
with the web audio API,
we don't just use date dot.
Now we don't just use the browser time or
anything like that.
Because the Web Audio API has its own
scheduling system, it has its own timers
and the time resolution is a little
bit different than the browser timing.
And so you don't really try and mix the
two timings, the current time of the audio
context might not match exactly what you
would expect in real life sort of timing.
Because it has its own scheduling so
you just use that instead of using
date dot now or anything like that.
And what that will do It'll just
gradually change the volume but
it'll be gradual but it'll still be
fast enough that it'll feel immediate.
[SOUND].
And that last, these last two lines
here simply draws the rectangle and
scales it wide or
small depending on the mouse position and
depending on that volume,
so that's the gain node.
Now the next couple demos are a little
bit more into the visualization of things